Saxon and Xalan are XSLT processors.

XSLT stylesheets are interpreted by XSLT processors which generate a result from source XML.

Saxon is an XSLT 2.0 processor written in Java.

The <xsl:value-of> element usually takes an attribute called select. When the XSLT processor encounters an 
<xsl:value-of> instruction in the stylesheet, it inserts the value specified by the <xsl:value-of> element’s 
select attribute.

XML distinguishes between elements and attributes from different markup languages with namespaces.Most markup 
languages have their own namespace, which is identified with a unique identifier—a namespace URI. Namespace URIs 
are often (though not always) URLs.

A namespace declaration that doesn’t specify a prefix indicates the default namespace.

When an XML parser goes through a document, it looks at each element and attribute and tries to work out what 
namespace the element or attribute belongs to. It treats the name of each element and attribute as a qualified 
name or QName for short—a name that is qualified by the namespace to which the element or attribute belongs. If a 
qualified name contains a colon (:),then the part before the colon indicates a namespace prefix. The part after 
the colon is known as the local part or local name of the element.

Qualified names that don’t have colons are treated a little differently. If an element’s name doesn’t contain a 
colon, then the element belongs to the default namespace.

The <xsl:for-each> element iterates over the items in the sequence specified by the XPath in its select attribute.

Absolute paths start from the top of the document and work down from there. ( starts by /).

Relative paths don’t start with a / . Relative paths are always evaluated relative to the context node. The context
node is the element (or attribute, comment, or other kind of node) that we’re currently processing.

Absolute paths start with a / and reference nodes starting from the top of the XML document. Relative paths are 
evaluated starting from the context node, which is whatever node is currently being processed.

Inside the <xsl:stylesheet> document element, XSLT stylesheets are made up of a number of templates, each of which 
matches a particular part of the input XML document and processes it in whatever way we define. The templates are 
rules that define how a particular part of the input XML document maps on to the result that we want. Thus a full 
stylesheet has a structure that’s quite similar to the structure of CSS stylesheets—a set of rules that match 
different elements and describe how they should be presented.







